#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

= Generate Gallery ID =

== Introduction ==

A gallery consists of a minimum of 2 and a maximum of 500 images. The images are interlinked so that navigation to the previous or next image are easy steps for the viewer.

Each gallery is identified by a unique ID (*GID*). The *GID* is a 32 character long, alphanumeric, non-case-sensitive string.

Each gallery has following parameters:
  * GID
  * title (max. length 100 characters)
  * description (max. length 500 characters)

Certain special characters automatically removed from the *title* and *description*.

== Generating a new Gallery ==

Parameters:
  * oauth_consumer_key
  * oauth_token
  * oauth_signature_method
  * oauth_signature
  * oauth_timestamp
  * oauth_nonce
  * response_format
  * title _(optional)_
  * description _(optional)_
  

Currently available response formats are:
  * JSON

The above parameters should sent via GET or POST method to following URL:
{{{
http://www.imagebam.com/XXXX - will be posted when live
}}}

If all parameters check out you will receive the response in the requested format.

Example response:
{{{
{
  "GID":"asdfqwertzuiqwerasdfqwertzuiqwer",
  "title":"This is just an example title.",
  "description":"This is an example description"
}
}}}

The request can fail for following reasons:
  * invalid OAuth authentication
  * other invalid parameters

In the case of an invalid OAuth authentication the response will be in the format required by the OAuth Core 1.0a.

A documentation of the possible error-codes and error-messages is still a work in progress. 